Power Launch Formula, as you surely know, is a formula, a guide, a method that helps you
step by step, accompanies you, helps you to launch innovative products, services, business models.
So today we are going to talk about this innovative concept. Why? Because you are going to understand
the scope of this well. It will help you identify whether this is actually for you or not, but also
I want us to reflect on the concept of innovation because it has enormous implications in the business world.
It is very important that we understand well what it means to make decisions with a certain degree of innovation
and what are the implications in terms of potential, risk, focus and so on.
We are talking about launching products, services, business models. So what we are going to do is
we are going to compare two extremes, although as we always say, things are not black or white,
there is usually a gray scale, but when we understand the two extremes it is much easier.
So we are going to compare the case that we launch a very innovative product with the opposite case,
which is what we do is imitate competitors in a market that already exists.
Innovative product. Really here it is very easy to understand, what we do is create a disruptive, different value proposition
and you have to understand that it can be in a market that already exists or if the degree of innovation is still greater,
what you do is create a new market, for example a blue ocean.
In the case that what we do is compete in a market that already exists, well that's it.
There is a market that has a size to the market, a number of customers, we already know and there are a series of companies
that have their proposals and what you do is do the same as the others.
It can be a little better, a little cheaper, etc.
I think we already understand the two concepts and we go to the implications.
The first and very important is that when we innovate the risk is much greater, because there is uncertainty,
because what you do is launch a new product, a new service and you have no idea what is going to happen.
You have no idea if there are going to be values, if they are going to buy you, etc.
In the case that what we do is imitate the proposals of others, the risk is very low,
because you already know what is going to happen, because there are people who are buying those companies
and I am going to imitate a company like that, I am going to change a few things, I already know more or less what is going to happen.
Higher risk when we innovate, but, and this is very important,
you have to be clear that the potential is much greater when you are innovating.
You can grow faster, the benefits are greater, the margins are greater, because at the beginning you do not have competition
and this is even more extreme when what you do is create a blue ocean, a new market space in which you do not have competitors.
On the other hand, when you compete, the potential is much lower.
There are already other competitors and what you do is, well, if you do it well,
what you are going to get is a percentage of the market share.
It is very important that we take into account, and this is perhaps a little more difficult to understand,
that really the focus, the management approach, the competencies that you need are very different to innovate and to compete.
There are even people who are worth one thing and people who are worth another.
When we innovate, the approach has to be to look for, and you will understand it well throughout the Power Launch Formula.
You have to permanently look for what is the best value proposition, how to evolve that proposition,
until it fits perfectly with a client segment.
On the other hand, when you compete, when you enter a market that already exists, you do not have to look for,
what you have to do is execute, execute in time, in form, in cost, etc.
It is totally different, it is to innovate, to look for, it is a much greater intellectual challenge,
but as we have seen before, the potential is also higher.
And finally, regarding financing, there are many entrepreneurs who are concerned about this.
When you launch innovative models, if the market is large, if the model is scalable, etc.,
you will be able to count on the help of professional investors, business angels and others,
because they will be interested in you, because they will be able to obtain a very high profitability from your investment.
If you enter a market that already exists, with a proposal like the others,
the potential will be much lower and therefore it is very difficult for investors of this type to trust you.
What you will have to do is put your money and resort to traditional financing, like all companies in life.
We summarize it, innovate, when we innovate the potential is much higher, you can do whatever you want,
you can revolutionize a sector, you can become a millionaire, whatever,
but you have to take into account that it is much more difficult and that the risk is much higher.
I am going to give you three examples of Power MBA.
What we did was go to the market with an innovative proposal,
a different proposal than the rest of the business schools, and the potential is huge.
We have created a blue ocean and we are growing a lot.
We do not have competition, but the risk was very high, because when we thought about this proposal,
we had no idea at first if a single client was going to buy us,
we did not know if people were going to see value in making an MBA,
that it was like a series in audiovisual format, etc. You already know the proposal.
I assure you that we did not know.
Your lottery, your lottery is a true case of success, of innovation in the lottery sector.
What Eduardo, his founder, realized that buying the lottery in an application was,
the client experience was much better, but there was no one who did it,
therefore the risk was very high.
What happened is that, of course, the subsequent growth has been gigantic,
because no one else did it and there are almost no competitors yet.
Or the case of Samplea, Samplea is a case of true innovation.
Robert, you surely know Samplea already,
because one day he thought that if he placed sample dispensing machines in shopping centers,
people would be interested in queuing, downloading the application and so on,
but that was in his head, he had not validated it yet.
The risk was very high.
And I'm going to end with a reflection.
As we have said, when you are able to launch innovative models,
the potential is gigantic, you will be able to do whatever you want.
And the risk is much higher.
But the important thing here is that you learn to innovate,
it is not a matter of being a visionary,
you learn, it is a matter of knowledge, it is a matter of method.
And that is exactly what we are going to do in Power Launch Formula.